Automatic split point (#719)
avaframe/AvaFrame: docs/moduleAna5Utils.rst

Computational modules like :math:`\alpha\beta` (:ref:`moduleCom2AB`) or analysis modules like
the Thalweg-time diagram (:ref:`moduleAna5Utils`) or Aimec (:ref:`moduleAna3AIMEC`) require
an avalanche path and split point as input. This avalanche path and split point are usually
created manually based on an expert opinion. The objective of this module is to automatically

> generate an avalanche path from a dense flow avalanche (DFA) simulation before placing a split point.

Reviewer: before or and?

direction of the path given by the few last points in the path in (x,y) (all points at a distance
``nCellsMinExtend`` x cellSize < distance < ``nCellsMaxExtend`` x cellSize)) and extending in
this direction for a given percentage (``factBottomExt``) of the total length of the path :math:`s`.

Split point generation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> A parabolic curve is fitted to the avalanche path profile extracted from the DFA simulation (non-extended profile).
> The first and last points of the parabolic profile match the avalanche path profile. To find the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A parabolic curve is fitted to the avalanche path profile extracted from the DFA simulation (non-extended profile), where
the first and last point of the parabolic profile match the avalanche path profile. To find the
```

> best fitting parabolic profile, a constrain is needed. Two options are available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
best fitting parabolic profile, an additional constraint is needed. Two options are available:
```

the default one (``fitOption``= 0) minimises the distance between the parabolic profile and the avalanche path

> profile. The second option (``fitOption``= 1) matches the end slope of the profile to the parabola.

Reviewer: The second option tries to match the parabola to the end slope of the profile - is it like this? I mean it uses the profile as input to then create the parabola right? So the profile is not changed

This parabolic fit determines the split point location. It is the first point for which the slope is

> lower than the ``slopeSplitPoint`` angle. This point is then projected on the avalanche path profile.

Reviewer: maybe add the distance parameter in the description that is also taken into account here?

Author: Here we get the split point from the parabola. A parabola concave (on the part that interests us) which means the slope angle decreases. The first point below the  ``slopeSplitPoint`` IS the good point (there is no need for the  distance parameter here I think). Or did I not understand the question properly?

> A parabolic curve is fitted to the avalanche path profile extracted from the DFA simulation (non extended profile).
> The first and last point of the parabolic profile match the avalanche path profile. In order find the
> best fitting parabolic profile, a last constrain is needed. Two options are available.
> the default one (``fitOption``= 0) minimizes the distance between the parabolic profile and the avalanche path
> profile. The second option (``fitOption``= 1) matches the end slope of the profile to the parabola.
> The split point location is determined on this paraboli fit. It is the first point for which the slope is
> lower than the ``slopeSplitPoint`` angle. This point is then projected on the avalanche path profile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A parabolic curve is fitted to the avalanche path profile extracted from the DFA simulation (non-extended profile).
The first and last points of the parabolic profile match the avalanche path profile. To find the
best fitting parabolic profile, a constrain is needed. Two options are available:
the default one (``fitOption``= 0) minimises the distance between the parabolic profile and the avalanche path
profile. The second option (``fitOption``= 1) matches the end slope of the profile to the parabola.
This parabolic fit determines the split point location. It is the first point for which the slope is
lower than the ``slopeSplitPoint`` angle. This point is then projected on the avalanche path profile.
```
